			General Notes on XMan
		(Based on Discussions with Omer on 2000-05-15.)
		$Id$

* Top-Level Organization

There are three man pieces of code comprising xman:

1. (Not named yet) (written by Hao Wang -- hbwang).  Provides access
to Paradyn data.  This code is not really working yet.  An xman data
format needs to be agreed upon.

2. xnav (written by Wei Zhou -- zhou).  Used to pick which data to
display, and also look at structural differences between the data
for two runs.

3. xvis (written by Omer Zaki -- ozaki).  Uses DEVise to visualize
the data selected with xnav.  xvis is a server, and xnav is the
client.  Of course, xvis is the client for a devised.

Right now xvis only allows one xnav client at a time, and can only
handle one devised at a time -- this will probably change eventually.
Also, xvis currently does the conversion of data from Paradyn format to
DEVise format.  This will change once part 1 is working.

Parts 1 and 2 are not really integrated yet.  Parts 2 and 3 are integrated,
but need some changes in order to be more robust.  They will also have
to be change a bit when part 1 is integrated.


* Java

All code is Java (Java 1.2).  The code uses packages.


* Running Demos

demo_xnav: this uses xnav and xvis together.  To start it, first run
startXVisServer (you can specify a port number).  Then run startXNav
with the port number used by xvis.  In xnav, select Open, go into
an experiment directory, select a hist* file, and click Open.  Then
select data to be shown, and click Display.

demo_xvis: this just runs xvis without xnav.  To start it, just run
startExample.  Clicking on one of the 'Session' buttons displays a
data set.


* Problems

If xvis asks DEVise to display too many data files (for example, more than
50), DEVise crashes.

Xvis often doesn't quit cleanly.

Once in a while the devised doesn't get killed off when it should.


* Xvis Code

- XVisServer: the entry point to xvis -- has the main() method.

- Tool: has the GUI for the xvis-only demo.

- XVisClient: xnav uses this class to communicate with xvis.  Xnav
  creates an XVisClient object, and calls methods in that object, which
  then send commands to xvis.

- DeviseManager: an object of this class corresponds to a devised.
  It sends and receives commands (there is a thread specifically for
  receiving commands from the devised).  There is a method in this
  class for each command xvis sends to the devised (the class hides
  the details of the command formats).  There are two mode switches:
  verbose turns on and off verbose debug output.  devisedSync turns
  on and off syncronous command sending (xvis sends a command and
  waits for the reply before sending the next command).  Asyncronous
  mode is the default because it's much faster.
