	Plans for 4096-Type 3D Visualizations in Peptide-CGI
			2002-09-11

- Use separate TDatas for the different variables that can be shown.
  (That way we can use the existing data files.)

- Can we rely on all entries having the same set of chemical shifts?
  If not, how are the existing chem shift session files set up to
  accomodate the differences?
    - It looks like they are all the same, but I should verify that.

- We need both X and Y attributes in the summary data set.  NO!  Parent
  view can only control one attribute of child view's mapping.


* Steps:
    x- Add residue-selection and scrolling cursors like 4096.
    x- Create a data file containing a list of the various data sets
      available, along with other stuff such as the data source names.
      (Note that chemical shift indices have to be split up.)
      	x- What do we need?:
	    x- Human-readable name.
	    x- Data source name.
	    x- Attribute name.
	    ?- Data source definition.
        x- Make some class to store this (S2DDatasetInfo?).
    x- Add a view with the list of data sets, and get its visual filter
      set properly.
    x- Add data source definitions to the session file.
    x- Add the view showing the selected data set.
    	x- Get the visual filter set up properly.
    x- Add the view controlling the X axis of the data view.
    x- Get cursor controlling data view X axis to show the full range of
      available data when you first open the session (use the session
      postscript stuff?).  (One acc num that doesn't show the full thing
      right away is 5275.)
    x- Add the link between the data view and the 3D and residue list
      highlights.
        x- Argh!! We really need a TData attribute link for this!  (Unless
	  we put *all* of the data into one big file -- then we need to
	  generate a custom schema file for each visualization.)
    	x- GData attr links don't seem to work right for 3D views sending
	  GData to the JS.
    !- Does the data view need a link on sequence number???  (Probably not --
      4096 doesn't have this.)
    x- A few minor cleanups to match the behavior of the original 4096
      prototype.
    - Fix bugs.
