			DEVise Demo README File
				June 23, 1997

(Note: if you have any questions on this stuff, talk to Kent.)


SESSION FILES

The following session files are available:
    AssocRules.tk
    BAA.tk
    BankFace.tk: (Devise 1.4 only, needs Strings/Bank as devise.strings file).
    COD1.tk
    FamMed_pre_post_natal.tk
    FamMed_visits.tk
    Maps_Tk.tk: (Devise 1.4 only, needs Strings/Maps as devise.strings file).
    MarsDemo.tk: images of mars (needs CD with images).
    MolBio.tk: molecular biology cell images and data.
    NIMA.tk
    WordCount.tk: (Devise 1.4 only).
    bank_dte1.tk: (Devise 1.4 only).
    bank_dte2.tk: (Devise 1.4 only).
    birch1.tk
    birch2.tk
    multi1.tk: data from PVM runs.
    multi2.tk: data from PVM runs.
    orange_rtree.tk: RTree of Orange County Tiger data.


SESSION FILE MODES

The demo session files all have their mode set to 444.  The reason for
this is that they are specially hand-edited to be compatible with Devise
1.3 _and_ 1.4.  If you save the session file from 1.4, you will not be able
to load it in 1.3.  If you save it from 1.3, you will lose the session
description.  If you have problems with a session file, or need to modify
one, please talk to Kent.


DEVISE STRINGS

Two of the demo session files need a devise.strings file to work correctly.
To run one of these sessions, you need to copy the appropriate file to
devise.strings in your current directory.  I know that this is really a
pain in the ass, but I haven't been able to get around it.  I tried hand-
editing the session files to have them copy the strings file, but that
didn't work.  Anyhow, the files are as follows:

- BankFaces.tk needs /p/devise/demo/Strings/Bank copied to ./devise.strings.
- Map_Tk.tk needs /p/devise/demo/Strings/Maps copied to ./devise.strings.

If you don't have a devise.strings file, or you have the wrong one, and
you load one of these sessions, some of the symbols will come up in the
wrong place.


NOTES ON RUNNING DEMOS

- It's probably a good idea to quit Devise and start all over again fairly
  frequently.  This is especially true if you are using sessions that have
  Tasvir images in them.  If there are any problems, the Tasvir server can
  use up huge amounts of memory (I've had one get as big as 176MB!).

- There are still some problems with the multi sessions.  If you are running
  those sessions, I would recommend that you quit Devise almost every time
  you load a session.  Also, I _strongly_ recommend that you do not destroy
  any views in the multi sessions.  If you need to do so, you should
  immediately save the session and quit, then restart multi and reload the
  session.

- There is a problem with flipping piled views that sometimes causes
  Devise to crash.  It doesn't _always_ happen, but I've seen in on the
  Maps_Tk and orange_rtree sessions.


DEVISE VERSIONS

It is generally preferable to run the demos in DEVise 1.4, unless you want
to demonstrate some feature that works in 1.3, but not in 1.4 (e.g., exporting
templates).  In general, I think such features will usually fall outside
of that we want to demo.

All of the demo sessions current work in devise 1.4 or multi 1.4 (remember
that you have to run multi to load the multi* sessions).  The following
sessions do not work at all in DEVise 1.3:

    - bank_dte1.tk
    - bank_dte2.tk

(they require DTE features that are not implemented in 1.3).

The following sessions work, but not entirely correctly in DEVise 1.3:

    - BankFace.tk
    - Maps_Tk.tk
    - WordCount.tk

(the data is not displayed "nicely" because of changes in how the mappings
are defined).

Note: as of June 23, 1997, the Maps_Tk.tk session will not work in 1.3,
either.  RKW.


DEMO USER

Both the Toshiba and ThinkPad machines have a 'demo' user set up on them.
To run the demos, you should log in as this user.  It's paths are set up
so that the commands devise, devise1.3, multi, and mult1.3 run the
appropriate version of DEVise on the demo sessions, schemas, and data.
The startup scripts automatically launch Tasvir and EmbeddedTk where
necessary.  When you log in, you need to run startx to fire up the X
 server.


CD ROM PLAYER

Once you've got the player physically hooked up, all you should have to
do is run 'mount /cdrom' (as root) to get the CD ready to go.  When you
run the MarsDemo session, it will read the images from the CD ROM.  You
should run the command 'umount /cdrom' before removing the CD from the
player.
